---
layout: post
title: setup
date: 2021-05-24 00:00:00 -0700
---

## Downloads
1. Download binaries directly from OneDrive (should be in the Discord)
2. Download unreal engine from epic games [here](https://www.unrealengine.com/en-US/download)
3. Make sure you have Python installed and it can be run from the terminal!
   This will be different for Windows vs. Mac/Linux but I trust you can do
   this part on your own. You'll know you've been successful when you type `python` in the
   terminal and you immediately enter a shell (fancy words that just mean you
   can type commands like `print("hello world")` and it will directly give
   output of the command). 
4. Downloading Git for [Desktop](https://desktop.github.com/) - I prefer you downlad this because it's
   more beginner frinedly - or for [terminal](https://git-scm.com/downloads) if
   you want to flex terminal skills.
5. Once Git is setup, install the [testing](https://github.com/AISUM-Purdue/testing.git
) repository in the folder of your
   choice - make sure you can access this later

## Setting up Environment
1. Make sure you change the documents section! This will be different on
   different operating systems, but on Windows you should be able to access the
   `Documents` folder from the `this PC` folder on the explorer. From there you
   should be able to access the `AirSim` folder and open `settings.json`
   file. All that happens now is that you have to replace what's in the file
   with this
   ```
   {
  "SeeDocsAt": "https://github.com/Microsoft/AirSim/blob/master/docs/settings.md",
  "SettingsVersion": 1.2,
  "SimMode": "Multirotor",
  "ViewMode": "SpringArmChase",
  "ClockSpeed": 1.0,
  "PawnPaths": {
    "DefaultQuadrotor": { "PawnBP": "Class'/AirSim/Blueprints/BP_FlyingPawn.BP_FlyingPawn_C'"  }
  },
  "Vehicles": {
    "SimpleFlight": {
      "VehicleType": "SimpleFlight",
      "DefaultVehicleState": "Armed",
      "EnableCollisionPassthrogh": false,
      "EnableCollisions": true,
      "AllowAPIAlways": true,
      "RC": {
        "RemoteControlID": 0,
        "AllowAPIWhenDisconnected": false
      }
    }
  }
}
   ```
2. Head over to the folder that we cloned from Github and run the following
   commands based on your OS.

   Windows:
   ```
   python -m venv venv
   . venv\Scripts\activate
   pip install airsim
   ```

   Mac / Linux:
   ```
   python3 -m venv venv
   . venv/bin/activate
   pip install airsim
   ```
   This will install the basic airsim API so that we can control the drone with
   code. In the future I want to be able to run ```pip install -r
   requirements.txt```, but that's a later issue.

## Testing Code
1. In the `testing` folder you cloned earlier, there will be a `hello_drone.py`
   file. What we have to do now is run the binaries from the Hospital_4.0
   folder from the onedrive and then run ```python hello_drone.py``` - the
   drone should take flight! Make sure you are in the virtual environment
   - this means you should be in the folder in terminal and should see
     ```venv``` on the terminal line (just search up how setting up venv looks
     on your OS if you're confused). 

2. By now, you should be good to go, but if you want to experiment some more you
   should try the ```drone_keyboard.py``` file - you should be able to go on
   your own now :)
